# Incident: 2024-12-06 18-41-00

## Summary

At 11:41 am MST on December 6, 2024, there was a failure in pizza creation. This prevented any customer from being able to order a pizza. The incident lasted roughly 10 minutes.

The cause was from getting blocked by the upstream factory. We dectected this via our Grafana metrics when an alert was sent out when creation failures reached 2 per minute. We started work immediately to resolve the issue.

This incident impacted 2 users at the time of the incident.

## Detection

This incident was detected when a critical alert was sent out to the team. Alec Davis was the first to respond.
Most of the time spent was figuring out how to resolve the issue. The response was immediate.


## Impact

For 10 minutes between 18:41 and 18:51 on 12/06/25, users were unable to purchase pizzas. Luckily it was a slow point of the business so only 2 users were impacted. They experienced an error saying that the order was unable to be fulfilled.

## Timeline

All times are UTC.

- _18:41_ - We were blocked by the service which produced the pizzas for users
- _18:41_ - Alert was sent out when pizza creation failures increased.
- _18:43_ - We investigated if the authtoken used to access the creation service became invalid.
- _18:48_ - We investigate the response that the creation service was providing and discovered that we had been blocked via chaos testing.
- _18:49_ - We clicked on a link that the creation service provided during chaos testing to turn off their testing.

## Response

After receiving a page at 18:41 UTC, Alec Davis came online immediately to observe the info in the logs on Grafana.

This person checked the logs to see what was going wrong.


# Root cause

The root cause was from the pizza creation team initiating testing without informing the other teams.

## Resolution

The resolution was to access a link provided by the pizza creation service that allowed the team to disable the chaos testing.


# Prevention

We will need to have better communication to the pizza creation team so that we will know when they will be testing their service.
We will also need to set up a backup pizza creation service for when the primary one breaks for whatever reason.

# Action items

1. Increase communication with other teams so that we know when testing is occuring.
2. Set up a backup service to allow for potential failure from the pizza creation service.

